a group representing police chiefs
across canada is calling for
decriminalizing the possession of small
amounts of illicit drugs
the canadian association of chiefs of
police says substance use and addiction
are a public health
issue and it's recommending a national
task force be created to look into drug
policy reform the president of the
organization vancouver police chief adam
palmer says arresting people for simple
possession
has proven ineffective and doesn't save
lives being addicted to a controlled
substance
is not a crime and should not be treated
as such we recommend that canada's
enforcement-based approach
for possession be replaced with a health
care approach
that diverts people from the criminal
justice system so what ultimately caused
you to get sober what was the moment
that you made the decision and i don't
know like events around it like what's
your story with
your decision to get sober well really
wasn't my decision because i ended up in
jail i feel like
they arrested me and i was looking at
some pretty
serious prison time like it and it
didn't really matter to me
um when i got arrested like i remember
calling my mom like begging her to
you know get me up and thank god she
didn't you know because i had enough
time to get physically sober you know
enough time to like feel
something you know and to be able to
like look at what's actually been
happening to my life
as far as withdrawing off of math i
didn't withdraw until i went to jail
i always had it so i didn't think i had
a problem and i remember when i went to
court and the judge was like you're
going to prison for three years
like it was in that moment like i don't
know maybe it was like walking across
the courtroom in shackles in front of my
mom and seeing her
like knowing she did everything for me
growing up i was a cheerleader i was on
dance team like
she gave me every opportunity to be
successful in my life and then here i am
a hundred pounds and you know going to
prison
and i was willing to take responsibility
even if that meant going to prison for
three years
so when i went to jail and i actually
had to get off of meth
i would feed for it i'd be calling
bondsmans my first few days i didn't
have a bond
there was no pond no one could come get
me but i wanted to get out so bad to get
high i was like literally feeding for it
and i had someone that i was selling to
come up to me and say
jessica you're obviously addicted to
math like you need to calm down
and i just didn't even i didn't even
think about it i was just like i must
get out like i have to get out i need
it and i remember just like sitting in
that cell
being so like depressed and i i was
feeding like i said
i just was anxious i would pace this
cell back and forth i couldn't sit still
my mind was just obsessing over it like
you have to get out you have to get out
you have to get out you have to get meth
and there was absolutely no way for me
to get out eventually that did go away
but it probably took a solid like three
to five weeks for me to even feel kind
of normal
you quit math before you quit other
substances right
like heroin i quit heroin first okay so
you quit meth after
what caused you to quit um i was
arrested
i was arrested at 4 30 in the morning on
october 20th 2011
and that that was it that was the last
time that i used i went to a place
called oasis women's recovering
community
which is like not a non-profit like they
don't make profit like i stood out in
parking lots for six months selling
coupon booklets to carl's jr
like to be there like self-supporting so
like
it was really hard like it wasn't a
luxury treatment center where
you know i'm getting a massage and
acupuncture and thank god i landed there
because
they told me the truth about myself you
know that it was
i had to make a choice like do i want to
continue being selfish and living this
kind of life
and take my whole take my daughter's
life away from her by not giving her a
mother
like it was honest you know i also found
out
when i was arrested that i was pregnant
i was about three weeks pregnant
and that was a very hard thing for me to
wrap my brain around too i knew i was
going to prison
um for selling drugs i didn't know how
to go to prison pregnant so
you know that whole journey was really
tough for me i served two and a half
years my daughter was born while i was
in prison and
she was the sole reason why i got sober
and i've stayed sober ever since and i
have almost eight years over now
and she's so related
[Music]
being addicted to a controlled substance
is not a crime and should not be treated
as such
we recommend that canada's enforcement
enforcement-based approach for
possession
be replaced with a health care approach
that diverts people from the criminal
justice system
i agree if you say that i'm a different
person anybody say that
money don't change them they just didn't
make enough